--- REPORT ---
Branch: tts/prepared-cloud (worktree .claude/worktrees/tts-investigation)
Commits this run (hash + subject, oldest first):
44b10406 docs(tts): the owner's changes to the prepared-cloud brief
6df96e92 docs(tts): part A stops - another feature's migration is pending
c2dcaffa docs(tts): parts B and C on the phone, and the run report
Parts complete (A-D): A stopped at its own step 2 by design; B blocked entirely, not
started; C complete, all three checks; D nothing to do. No code changed.
A: linked (yes/no, or the command the owner must run); pending migrations before applying (list):
Linked: yes, from this worktree, with no login or database password prompt -
supabase link --project-ref "$(cat supabase/.temp/project-ref)" using the reference
from the main checkout. The CLI provisions a temporary login role per connection.
Pending before applying: TWO, not one - 20261009000000_parrot_cloud_saved_words.sql
and 20261010000000_parrot_cloud_prepared_audio.sql. No remote migration is missing
from the repository.
A: baseline suite (files that failed and why, or "all passed except the new file"); applied (yes/no); suite after (passed/total); the 38 new assertions (passed/total):
Baseline: NOT RUN, and not runnable on this machine. supabase test db --linked fails
with DockerRunError; --linked only redirects which database pg_prove is pointed at and
pg_prove itself still runs in a container. No docker, podman, colima, psql or pg_prove
is installed. Applied: NO. Suite after: not run. The 38 new assertions: 0/38, still
never executed anywhere. The step-2 and step-4 queries could not be run either, for
the same reason: there is no SQL session available and no credential was looked for.
A: corrective migrations written (file names and what each fixed), or "none":
none - nothing was applied, so nothing could fail.
A: is the linked project left working for book backups (yes/no) and how I know:
Yes. It received one link and two read-only commands (projects list, migration list);
no migration, no row, no reset, no ops script. I know by construction rather than by
observation: I could not confirm it from the app because the phone is signed out.
B: signed in (yes/no); allow-list row added (yes/no):
Signed in: NO. Settings -> Parrot Cloud shows the signed-out form (empty email and
password fields, "Create an account"). The prompt says not to sign in in that case, so
nothing was typed. Allow-list row added: no - with no session there is no user id, and
none was taken from anywhere else.
B: each of checks 1 to 10, one line: what the row or screen showed, what the server answered, pass or fail:
1-10 all BLOCKED, not attempted, on two independent things: the app is signed out, so
there is no account to back up to, no usage breakdown, no quota row; and part A did not
apply the migration, so no reachable server knows tts_prepared_audio. Every one of
those checks would have tested the wrong thing. No server answer was obtained for any.
B: download installed and played with no synthesis (yes/no):
Not reached (blocked). Separately proven locally in C1: a locally prepared chapter
played with grep -c 'synthesize start' = 0, so the play-from-prepared-audio path works;
only the cloud download into it is untested.
B: storage full: the row's text and action; quota restored to its original value (yes/no); waiting chapter uploaded afterwards (yes/no, what it took):
Not reached (blocked). No quota was read or written, so nothing needed restoring; the
account's quota_bytes is untouched.
B: any crash, retry loop or unasked-for error (yes/no, which):
No - but across part C, not part B. pid 24620 unchanged from first check to last and
grep -c 'FATAL EXCEPTION' = 0 for the whole run.
C: Supertonic: terms accepted, pack downloaded, preview, read-aloud, stop mid-sentence, chapter prepared and played (yes/no each); app stayed alive (yes/no):
Terms accepted: already accepted on arrival, so the dialog was NOT exercised; deleting
the pack does not revoke acceptance, so it is only reachable again by clearing app
data. Pack downloaded: yes, deleted and downloaded again (139M on disk). Preview: yes
(Supertonic loaded: sampleRate=44100 speakers=10). Read-aloud: yes, 7 sentences. Stop
mid-sentence: yes, control went to Play at "Sentence 7 of 151". Chapter prepared and
played: yes, on the 1 KB fixture book, "Ready, plays instantly · 81 kB", then played
with 0 synthesize calls. App stayed alive: YES - TTS-F22 does not reproduce.
C: "voice not usable" row: text and where the action leads; "failed" row: text and Retry (seen yes/no each):
"Voice not usable": NOT SEEN, and it is unreachable this way. VoiceUnusable keys on the
selected voice (PreparedChapterRowState.kt:35,64) but the app's pack delete always
moves the selection to the phone's voice first - both confirmations say so - and a
system voice is not neural, so the branch cannot be entered; the terms variant needs
acceptance revoked, which deleting the pack does not do. What the row shows instead
when a chapter's voice is gone is OtherSettings: "Made for F1 (female) at 1×" with
"Prepare again". Were the state reached, its action opens the Voices sheet (line 85).
"Failed": SEEN - "Couldn't prepare this chapter." with "Retry", produced by removing
the Kokoro folder mid-preparation. Retry seen: yes; with the pack still missing it
opened the Voices sheet rather than looping, and with a usable voice it restarted the
preparation normally. Cancel also showed Partly, "19 of 151 sentences prepared".
C: lock screen shows pause and play for read-aloud (yes/no):
NO. Checked with DND on and again with DND off (the owner allowed changing it), so the
result does not rest on DND; DND was restored to priority afterwards. No media card on
the lock screen and none in the lock-screen shade, and dumpsys notification only ever
listed the two preparation-progress channels. A MediaSession IS published while playing
(state=PLAYING(3), with Previous/Next sentence actions), so the session exists but
nothing carries it to the lock screen. Playback itself does continue while locked.
D: wrong behaviours found (list); fixed here with test first (list); left and why (list):
Found: (1) after a lock and unlock, read-aloud stops advancing while the mini player
still reads "Pause" and its play/pause control goes dead - reproduced twice, "Stop
listening" still recovers it; (2) no media notification for read-aloud, so no lock
screen pause and play; (3) the read-aloud bar labels a Supertonic voice "Device voice ·
F1" while the Listening sheet calls it "F1 · Natural".
Fixed here with test first: none.
Left and why: all three are in read-aloud and its mini player, not in prepared chapters
- the brief puts read-aloud outside this work and says to record, not fix. Nothing
wrong was found in this feature's own code, so part D had nothing to do.
Existing tests edited (name + why), or "none": none
Per module after this run: no code changed
App build results (Android assemble, iOS framework): no code changed
State the phone was left in (signed in, network, voice packs, voice, rate, screen):
Signed OUT of Parrot Cloud, as found. Wi-Fi on, mobile data on, DND back to priority.
Kokoro installed (152M) and Supertonic installed (139M). System voice, rate 1×, pitch
Normal, sleep timer Off. Library screen. Every prepared chapter this run made was
deleted (files/tts-prepared holds two empty book folders, 11K). Alice moved 24% -> 25%.
No command was sent to the Xiaomi that was also attached.
State the linked project was left in (migrations applied, account quota, allow-list):
Exactly as found. No migration applied (both 20261009000000 and 20261010000000 still
pending), no quota read or written, no allow-list row added, no row of any kind written.
Only a link and two read-only commands touched it. supabase/.temp is still git-ignored
and nothing from it was committed.
Not done or partly done, and why:
The whole of part A past its step 2, and the whole of part B. Part A: the brief says
stop when any migration other than this work's is pending, and
20261009000000_parrot_cloud_saved_words.sql is - it belongs to the saved-words feature
and its own header asks to be deployed ahead of clients that push words. Both db push
and migration up apply the entire pending chain in timestamp order, so there is no CLI
route that applies this work's migration without also deploying that one. Independently,
the pgTAP suite cannot run here at all for want of a container runtime or psql, so
applying would have meant applying SQL whose 38 assertions have never run - the one
step the rollout document calls not optional. Part B: the phone is signed out and the
prompt forbids signing it in. I also wrote the report once at the end rather than at
the end of each part, to avoid writing the same long file three times; NOTES.md was
written as I went and committed per part.
Known problems I am leaving:
The two things that have never happened still have not: the server SQL has never run
anywhere, and the app has never talked to a server that knows prepared audio. To unblock
the next run the owner needs to, in this order: decide the saved-words migration
20261009000000 (it will be applied by any db push that applies this work's); install a
container runtime or psql so supabase test db and the rollout document's verification
queries can run; then run the rollout document's step 1 and sign the phone back in to
Parrot Cloud. The three read-aloud problems above are left unfixed by design. The
VoiceUnusable row state cannot be reached from the UI on a signed-out device, so it
stays covered by its unit tests only; the case it exists for - a neural voice synced to
a phone with no pack - needs a signed-in device to see.
--- END REPORT ---
